---
title: "About me"
date: "2021-09-01"
author: "Francisco Yirá"
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

<img src="/about.es_files/myself.jpg" class="portrait" align="right" width="20%"/>

Hi! My name is Francisco Yirá Albornoz ([pronouns:
he/him](http://mypronouns.org/he)). I'm an economist and data scientist.
I started my professional career as an intern at Oracle in 2016. Since
2017, I've worked in data-related roles in Marketing areas of companies
such as [Walmart Chile](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walmart#Chile) and
[WOM](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/WOM_(Chile)). I've also worked as an
independent consultant.

I'm interested in using econometrics and causal inference to solve
applied problems in industry, both through randomized trials and
quasi-experimental designs.

Also, I'm an enthusiast of the programming language `R`. I care about
accompanying its use with good practices (testing, documentation,
version control with `git`, and so on) to create analyzes based on
clean, quality code. I'm proficient in `SQL`, and since recently, I'm
working to advance my knowledge in `Python` (but if I could choose, I
would do everything in `R`).

I have knowledge and experience in the fundamentals of machine learning
modelling (especially using the framework `H2O`). I'm also interested in
developing dashboards and automated reports using packages such as
`rmarkdown` and `shiny`.

I enjoy a lot learning in an autodidact way and then sharing what I've
learned. This blog it's mainly about that: sharing my Data Science
learning path with whoever may be interested (although very occasionally
I'll publish posts on other topics that are relevant for me).

## Contact me

If you have any comments or feedback, feel free to reach me out through
any of the following channels (or just add me as a friend/connection to
stay in touch):

-   📧E-mail:
    [francisco.yira\@outlook.com](mailto:francisco.yira@outlook.com "Mi correo")

-   👨‍💼LinkedIn:
    [franciscoyira](https://www.linkedin.com/in/franciscoyira/ "Mi perfil en LinkedIn")

-   🐦Twitter:
    [\@francisco_yira](https://twitter.com/francisco_yira "Mi cuenta de Twitter")

-   🐙GitHub:
    [franciscoyira](https://github.com/franciscoyira "Mi perfil de GitHub")

📥If you want, you can also
[subscribe](https://www.franciscoyira.com/subscribe/) to receive new
blog articles by e-mail.
